####
S3
####

Overview
========

The :class:`~parsons.aws.s3.S3` class allows interaction with Amazon Web Service's `object storage service <https://aws.amazon.com/s3/>`__
to store and access data objects. It is a wrapper around the AWS SDK `boto3 <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/boto3/latest/>`__.
It provides methods to upload and download files from S3 as well as manipulate buckets.

.. admonition:: Authentication

   Access to S3 is controlled through AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users in the `AWS Managerment Console <https://aws.amazon.com/console/>`__.
   Users can be granted granular access to AWS resources, including S3. IAM users are provisioned keys, which are required to access the S3 class.

Quickstart
==========

S3 credentials can be passed as environmental variables (``AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`` and ``AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY``),
stored in an AWS CLI file ``~/.aws/credentials``, or passed as keyword arguments.

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: Pass API credentials via environmental variables or an AWS CLI file

   from parsons import S3
   s3 = S3()

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: Pass API credentials as arguments

   from parsons import S3
   s3 = S3(aws_access_key_id='MY_KEY', aws_secret_access_key='MY_SECRET')

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: Put an arbitrary file in an S3 bucket

   with open('winning_formula.csv') as w:
       s3.put_file('my_bucket', 'winning.csv, w)

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: Put a Parsons Table as a CSV using convenience method

   tbl = Table.from_csv('winning_formula.csv')
   tbl.to_s3_csv('my_bucket', 'winning.csv')

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: Download a csv file and convert to a table

   f = s3.get_file('my_bucket', 'my_dir/my_file.csv')
   tbl = Table(f)

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: List buckets that you have access to

   buckets = s3.list_buckets()

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: List the keys in a bucket

   s3.list_keys('my_bucket')

Temporary Credentials
---------------------

The S3 API supports creating temporary credentials for one-off operations, such as pushing a file to a particular key in a particular bucket.
For example, the Mapbox API allows you to request temporary credentials that grant you access to a bucket where you can upload map data.
When S3 returns a set of temporary credentials it also returns a session token that needs to be included with the standard credentials for
them to be accepted. The :class:`~parsons.aws.s3.S3` class can be passed a session token as an environmental variable (``AWS_SESSION_TOKEN``) or as a keyword argument.

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: Pass session token via AWS_SESSION_TOKEN environmental variable

   from parsons import S3
   s3 = S3()

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: Pass session token as an argument
   :emphasize-lines: 2-7

   from parsons import S3
   creds = request_temporary_credentials()
   s3 = S3(
      aws_access_key_id=creds['id'],
      aws_secret_access_key=creds['key'],
      aws_session_token=creds['token']
   )

API
====

.. autoclass:: parsons.aws.s3.S3
   :inherited-members:
   :members:
